---
brand: 'Portal'
description: 'Custom sales, ordering and marketing platform'
facts:
  - Dynamic sales engine
  - 3CX, Grandstream, Bambora, Purolator, Sage and Mailchimp
    integrations
  - SKU automation
  - Barcode generation
  - Reseller API infrastructure
  - MERN stack
gallery:
  - tdl-gentek-dashboard.webp,Dashboard
  - tdl-gentek-order.webp,Order form
  - tdl-gentek-product.webp,Reseller website
priority: 2
slug: 'tdl'
title: 'Gentek'
---

Gentek greatly influenced major versions one and two of
[Q3](/q3), as the largest and most complex adopter of the
framework. It's a heavily integrated system with layers of
business logic, tied to dozens of modules and user types.

The custom portal, referred to as _OET_, stands in front of
an on-premise ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) system.
Given its age and limitations, we decided to implement all
business logic in OET, acting as the "brain" for the ERP's
"body". As such, except for financial responsibilies, OET
handles everything else: from sales to returns to
prospecting to vendor management.

## Dynamic sales engine

By far the most intense aspect of the portal deals with
pricingâ€”both in terms of quoting as well as over-the-top
incentives like rebates and claim-backs. It's common for
some customers to have hundreds of sales rules, some
affecting single SKUs and others whole vendor catalogues.

### Custom pricing

The price engine supports six discounting formulas, each
applicable on both a company and association (group) level.
Additionally, the discounts can apply to one or more SKUs or
vendors, with customizable start and end dates, currencies
and price targets. Given that the company sells in different
currencies, with product pricing changing every few days,
this engine took a trememdous amount of work.

### Rebates

The instant rebate module inherited much of pricing's
functionality with additional features such as quantity
tracking, lifetime tracking, conditions (i.e. must order
another product) and more. Unlike some more rudimentary
implementions, such as coupons, rebating is an advanced
feature that works in lockstep with a customer's existing
custom prices and sales history.

### Claim-backs

The client can offset hard costs with claim-backs from their
vendors. Having dozens of vendors, keeping track of which
programs apply to which orders and products can get hairy,
so I worked them into the sales cycle via the rebate and
custom price modules so that managers can see profit margins
behind these incentives and keep track of money owed after
point-of-sale.

## Storefront

Connected to OET sits a static e-commerce storefront,
whereby resellers can quote and order products for their own
customers. In terms of e-commerce, it's rather
run-of-the-mill, as most of the product nuances are
back-end.

### Real-time shipping

The system integrates with Purolator's SOAP e-ship API. As I
couldn't find a decent Node JS implementation,
[I abstracted it and published to NPM before](https://github.com/MikeIbberson/purolator)
installing on the site for use.

### Saved carts

Given that TDL Gentek's pricing is highly dynamic, shopping
carts expire, so customers often start over if an order
idles too long. That said, a sales representive often ushers
customers through the sales process, using OET and the
website collaboratively, as the customer adds things to
their order and the rep modifies them.

### Product visibility

Some products need to be hidden per customer due to _Do Not
Sell_ lists provided by vendors. Likewise, if a customer's
been banned from ordering specific products, admistrators
need the tools to either hide or disable them from the
shopping cart. I implemented various protocols like this
that allow for the complete customization of every
customer's product results.
